masterclass: Initial PR for balenaCLI masterclass (#1)
balena-io-projects/balena-cli-masterclass: README.md

balenaCLI Masterclass
=====================

**Masterclass Type:** Core

# Introduction

The balena Command Line Interface (balenaCLI) utility consists of a number
of commands that allow a user to develop, deploy and manage balena applications
and devices.

Everything that can be achieved via the balenaCloud dashboard can also be
achieved via the balenaCLI.

In this masterclass, you will learn how to:

* Login to your account
* Push application code to a balena Application
* Deploy locally built code to a balena Application
* SSH into a balena device
* Push and build applications on a device on the local network for fast
    development and prototyping
* Use private Docker registries and modules from a balena device

# Hardware and Software Requirements

It is assumed that the reader has access to the following:

> * A [balenaFin 1.1](https://store.balena.io/collections/developer-kit/products/balenafin-v1-1-0-developer-kit)

Reviewer: Is there any reason to specifically require the fin here? Presumably we could use the fin as an example (and should, for subliminal messaging!) but we're making this masterclass inaccessible for all those who may not already have a fin, when to me it seems like a RPi3/NUC might do just fine (given the lack of hw requirements).

Author: I'd really only put that in because we were going to give every engineer a Fin. I think you're right though, if we just say a suitable device. It does make a little difference to the emulated build stuff, I'll have a think and rewrite that section appropriately.

Author: Done.

* A suitable text editor for developing code on your development platform (eg.
    [Visual Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/))
* A suitable shell environment for command execution (such as `bash`)
* A [balenaCloud](https://www.balena.io/) account
* A familiarity with [Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/)
* A [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) installation, including [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm)

# Exercises

All of the following exercises assume that you are running the balenaCLI from
a suitable Unix based shell. The exercises include commands which can be run

> in such a shell, and are represented by a line prefixed with `$`. Information

Reviewer: Convention is typically "commands as your user `$`, commands as root `#`. I _think_ at least the `npm --global` requires superuser permissions.

Author: This depends on you node/NPM installation. I use `nvm` where `global` is restricted to the current user and version, and I think that's actually now worth commenting on in the text.

Author: Done!

returned from execution of a command may be appended under the line to show
what might be returned. For example:

```
$ balena version
11.9.3
```

## 1. Installation and Authentication

First we need to install balenaCLI. Open a terminal on your development machine
and run the following command:
```

> $ npm --global install balena-cli

Reviewer: A general question about maintainability: should we default/redirect/generate these instructions from the CLI instructions, rather than maintaining a fork here? Paulo and I noticed recently some out of date installation instructions in the OS marketing docs, so it's at the top of my mind.

On the other hand, I like the idea of this masterclass being self contained.

Author: When I started writing the `README.md` I started putting links to other documents in. Then I started going through the class as if I was a first time reader. Once I'd got five tabs open, I suddenly realised this was not going to end well, and that only concentrating on one document was far more preferable. At this point, I switched out the links to instructions in the document (and of course, this was the first change ;-) ).

What I *really* want is what we've been discussing for ages, which is pulling in specific snippets of other partial documents to generate a new document. In that case, we'd specify the partial for installing `balena-cli` in the README partial which would get regenerated. Unfortunately, we're nowhere near that yet. So for the moment, it's forked.

Author: Actually, what I *really* want is something that can generate both this document *and* generate a fully interactive online tutorial. It would be so useful for all the masterclasses, especially if we could hook it into our backend and our devices. But that's not happening aaaanytime soon.

```
This will install the balenaCLI globally and allow you to run it in a terminal
via `balena <command>`.

To use balenaCLI, you need to login to a balenaCloud account (Ensure you have
signed up for a balenaCloud account

> [here](https://dashboard.balena-cloud.com/signup)). Next, login to balenaCLI

Reviewer: You can also select `I don't have a balena account!` after running `balena login` (opened https://github.com/balena-io/balena-cli/issues/1417 to make it a bit smoother).

Author: Extremely good point!

Author: Done.

command:
```
$ balena app create cliApp
```
This will ask you which device type you wish to create the application for.
You can scroll up and down this list using the arrow keys. For now, exit
the command by hitting `Ctrl-C`, as there's another, non-interactive way to
do this which we'll use instead. Type:
```
$ balena devices supported
```
to see a list of all supported device types by balenaCloud. We'll pass the
balenaFin device type (`fincm3`) to the application creation command directly:
```
$ balena app create cliApp --type fincm3
Application created: cliApp (fincm3, id 1234567)
```
As can be seen, this will return the name of the application, its type
(`fincm3`) and its unique ID.

Non-interactive commands are useful when you need to script actions via
balenaCLI for a shellscript (although balena also includes HTTPS endpoints and
SDKs which can be used for this purpose).

You can list the applications currently owned by (or shared with) your account
by typing:
```
$ balena apps
ID      APP NAME         DEVICE TYPE      ONLINE DEVICES DEVICE COUNT
1234567 cliApp           fincm3           0              0
```

### 2.2 Provisioning a Device

> You can now provision your balenaFin by downloading a provisioning image from

Reviewer: Since this is a CLI masterclass, how about `balena os download` and then hit it with some `balena os configure`?

Author: I'm counting that as a bit more of an advanced masterclass, `os download` and `os configure` open a little can of worms as they're not instantly deployable images.

[Etcher to flash it](https://www.balena.io/fin/1.1/docs/getting-started/#Flashing-the-OS).

Once the image has been flashed to the balenaFin it will register itself and
connect to the balenaCloud VPN, showing up in the dashboard and being viewable
using balenaCLI:
```
$ balena devices
ID      UUID    DEVICE NAME      DEVICE TYPE  APPLICATION NAME STATUS IS ONLINE SUPERVISOR VERSION OS VERSION           DASHBOARD URL
7654321 1234567 restless-glade   fincm3       cliApp                  true                                              https://dashboard.balena-cloud.com/devices/12345678901234567890123456789012/summary
```

You can get detailed information on a device by using its UUID, for example:
```
$ balena device 1234567
== RESTLESS GLADE
ID:                 7654321
DEVICE TYPE:        fincm3
STATUS:             idle
IS ONLINE:          true
IP ADDRESS:         192.168.1.173
APPLICATION NAME:   cliApp
UUID:               12345678901234567890123456789012
SUPERVISOR VERSION: 9.15.7
IS WEB ACCESSIBLE:  false
OS VERSION:         balenaOS 2.38.0+rev1
DASHBOARD URL:      https://dashboard.balena-cloud.com/devices/12345678901234567890123456789012/summary
```

> Be aware that there are ways to download, configure and provision an application

Reviewer: lame

[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:18:58 AM] Deleted image 'registry2.balena-cloud.com/v2/12344fad6b184fb68e1f94f8fced204d@sha256:35428c9df601789509f2100a8e6a22c2a2f0257bb49308053cb598be82e67ce4'
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:18:59 AM] Installing service 'main sha256:e2683253db679de87adca3b3fa80ac6aa16b62be4329524c394d3ce0d5f96f65'
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:00 AM] Installed service 'main sha256:e2683253db679de87adca3b3fa80ac6aa16b62be4329524c394d3ce0d5f96f65'
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:00 AM] Starting service 'main sha256:e2683253db679de87adca3b3fa80ac6aa16b62be4329524c394d3ce0d5f96f65'
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:01 AM] Started service 'main sha256:e2683253db679de87adca3b3fa80ac6aa16b62be4329524c394d3ce0d5f96f65'
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:02 AM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:02 AM] [main] > balena-cli-masterclass@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:02 AM] [main] > node src/helloworld.js; sleep infinity
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:02 AM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/3/2019, 11:19:03 AM] [main] Hello world!
```

> ### 3.2 `git push`

Reviewer: To me, this feels a little outside the scope of a balenaCLI masterclass. There's definitely value in debugging CLI issues/providing alternatives & workarounds to end users, but if it's "legacy" as well perhaps we shouldn't advertise it.

Author: I was very on the fence about this, but we still have a lot of customers using it and it seemed the right thing to do for completeness. @shaunmulligan what are your thoughts on this?

Reviewer 2: @hedss yeah, its a difficult one, I would almost want this in a CI/CD type master class or some kind of "alternative" deployment methods. I guess we will have more soon with the abilty to deploy from a github repo too.

Author: @shaunmulligan Yeah, I changed this around a bit, and I think once we have a CI/CD based class, this can get removed so `balena push` is the only 'official' way on the CLI.

[Info]     │ main    │ 208.39 MB  │ 7 seconds  │
[Info]     └─────────┴────────────┴────────────┘
[Info]     Build finished in 15 seconds
			    \
			     \
			      \\
			       \\
			        >\/7
			    _.-(6'  \
			   (=___._/` \
			        )  \ |
			       /   / |
			      /    > /
			     j    < _\
			 _.-' :      ``.
			 \ r=._\        `.
			<`\\_  \         .`-.
			 \ r-7  `-. ._  ' .  `\
			  \`,      `-.`7  7)   )
			   \/         \|  \'  / `-._
			              ||    .'
			               \\  (
			                >\  >
			            ,.-' >.'
			           <.'_.''
			             <'

To git.balena-cloud.com:heds/cliapp.git
 * [new branch]      initial-pr -> master
 ```

This will store the code from the local repository into the private copy
stored by balena.

Just like `balena push`, once the code has been built it will be downloaded
by the device and then run.

**Important Note:** There is absolutely no guarantee that the private repository
will be available for pulling code from, and as such it should never be used
as an application's source repository origin. It is intended to be a temporary
repository used only for pushing to the builders.

> ## 4. SSHing into a Device

Reviewer: I think it's worth mentioning here that `balena ssh {{uuid}}` routes via the VPN, but `balena ssh {{uuid.local}}/{{IP}}` route directly to the device (at least on development devices).

			    \
			     \
			      \\
			       \\
			        >\/7
			    _.-(6'  \
			   (=___._/` \
			        )  \ |
			       /   / |
			      /    > /
			     j    < _\
			 _.-' :      ``.
			 \ r=._\        `.
			<`\\_  \         .`-.
			 \ r-7  `-. ._  ' .  `\
			  \`,      `-.`7  7)   )
			   \/         \|  \'  / `-._
			              ||    .'
			               \\  (
			                >\  >
			            ,.-' >.'
			           <.'_.''
			             <'
```
This forces the `deploy` command to first build (or rebuild if the image already
exists) the project before pushing it to the Docker registries.

## 6. Using Local Mode to Develop Applications

So far, you've seen how to push code to the balena builders, or to build and
push images on a development machine. Whilst practical solutions for pre-tested
code, or for a CI pipeline, this is not a fast workflow for active development
of an application by an engineer as it involves rebuilding an image and then
delivering it to the target device.

To make active development of applications easier for an engineer, balena
devices provisioned with a development image include a device mechanism called

> 'Local Mode'. This can be activated easily from the dashboard. Go to your

Reviewer: Too bad local mode cannot be flipped from the CLI!

Author: This is a really good point, I think it should go into `balena-cli`.

Author: There's an outstanding issue: https://github.com/balena-io/balena-cli/issues/1304

[Build]   [main]  ---> 5adcd43b12c6
[Build]   [main] Step 6/8 : CMD ["npm", "start"]
[Build]   [main]  ---> Running in a415b6e7f0af
[Build]   [main] Removing intermediate container a415b6e7f0af
[Build]   [main]  ---> 1a1ff3926d42
[Build]   [main] Step 7/8 : LABEL io.resin.local.image=1
[Build]   [main]  ---> Running in 7390bcd46425
[Build]   [main] Removing intermediate container 7390bcd46425
[Build]   [main]  ---> ebf9fc9c43ed
[Build]   [main] Step 8/8 : LABEL io.resin.local.service=main
[Build]   [main]  ---> Running in 52ab62708a46
[Build]   [main] Removing intermediate container 52ab62708a46
[Build]   [main]  ---> 60f2a99b07c8
[Build]   [main] Successfully built 60f2a99b07c8
[Build]   [main] Successfully tagged local_image_main:latest

[Live]    Waiting for device state to settle...
[Info]    Streaming device logs...
[Live]    Watching for file changes...
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main] > balena-cli-masterclass@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main] > node src/helloworld.js; sleep infinity
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main] Hello world!
```

> As you can see, none of the Supervisor logging was output.

Reviewer: nit: none of the supervisor logs were {printed/shown/streamed}.

[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 3:58:56 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 3:58:56 PM] [main] Hello world!
```
Once rebuilt, it will restart the service. Notice that the `Rebuild the image`
echoed line is now in the build log.

Livepush goes way further than this, however. Only files that affect the
building of the service force a rebuild. For other files, for example source
files that run in-service, the Supervisor replaces the files in-situ in the
relevant container layer.
To show this, continue to run the `balena push` command and then alter the
`src/helloworld.js` in a text editor and change:
```
console.log('Hello world!');
```
to
```
console.log('Hello moon!');
```
On saving the file, you'll see the following output:
```
[Live]    Detected changes for container main, updating...
[Live]    [main] Restarting service...
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main] > balena-cli-masterclass@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main] > node src/helloworld.js; sleep infinity
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:28 PM] [main] Hello moon!
```

> Instead of rebuilding the image, which takes time, the file is injected into

Reviewer: Correct me if I am mistaken here, but this change also forces all subsequent layers to be rebuilt as well right?

Author: Nope, it just goes into a new layer on top AFAIK. It simply dumps it in, then restarts the container, nothing gets rebuilt.

rebuild code.

## 7. Using Private Registries and Build Time Secrets

### 7.1 Private Registries

As well as using public Docker registries it's possible to instruct builders,
either balena-based or using Local Mode, to pull images from private Docker
registries. This is achieved by using the `--registry-secrets` switch when
calling `balena push` passing a filename containing the secret information.
This information can be in either YAML or JSON. For example, a relevant
JSON object containing this information follows:
```
{
    "https://index.docker.io/v1/": {
		"username": "myUser",
		"password": "myPassword"
	}
}
```
If saved as a JSON file, for example `secrets.json`, it will then be used when
a base image or image for a service is pulled which requires credentials:
```
$ balena push --registry-secrets secrets.json
```
You can also save a file with secrets in JSON or YAML format in your home
directory, under `~/.balena/secrets.<yml|json>`, which will automatically be
used for the secrets if it exists and the `--registry-secrets` switch has not
been passed to `balena push`.

### 7.2 Build Time Secrets and Variables

> Sometimes it is neccesary to build images using secret information, commonly

Reviewer: nit: necessary

			   (=___._/` \
			        )  \ |
			       /   / |
			      /    > /
			     j    < _\
			 _.-' :      ``.
			 \ r=._\        `.
			<`\\_  \         .`-.
			 \ r-7  `-. ._  ' .  `\
			  \`,      `-.`7  7)   )
			   \/         \|  \'  / `-._
			              ||    .'
			               \\  (
			                >\  >
			            ,.-' >.'
			           <.'_.''
			             <'
```
As you can see, step 6 output:
```
[main]     Step 6/7 : RUN cat /run/secrets/my-secrets
[main]      ---> Running in 949098cba8b6
[main]     This file has build-time secrets!
```
which is the contents of the secrets file. This file could obviously contain
a raft of different functions, including a script that gets executed, text
for filling in files, etc. As well as defining globally accessible secrets
(which are shared to all services being built), there is also the option to
define secrets that are only accessible to particular services, or to map them
to different paths. This becomes useful in multicontainer build scenarios. This
can be achieved by adding a `services` section to the `balena.yml` file. For
example:
```
services:
  main:
    - source: main-only-secrets
	  dest: my-main-secrets
```

> Would map the `.balena/secrets/main-only-secrets` file into the

Reviewer: nit: This change would..

balenaCLI Masterclass
=====================

**Masterclass Type:** Core
**Maximum Expected Time To Complete:** 60 minutes

# Introduction

The balena Command Line Interface (balenaCLI) utility consists of a number
of commands that allow a user to develop, deploy and manage balena applications

> and devices.

Author: True, I do mention it later on and the advanced class makes use of them.

Everything that can be achieved via the balenaCloud dashboard can also be

> achieved via the balenaCLI.

Author: Yeah, I also realised as I went through that several things were broken, I'll amend this statement.

In this masterclass, you will learn how to:

* Login to your account
* Push application code to a balena Application
* Deploy locally built code to a balena Application
* SSH into a balena device
* Push and build applications on a device on the local network for fast
    development and prototyping
* Use private Docker registries for base images and services
* Create secret files and build arguments for building service images

If you have any questions about this masterclass as you proceed through it,
or would like clarifications on any of the topics raised here, please do

> raise an issue as on the repository this file is container in, or contact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
raise an issue in this repository (https://github.com/balena-io-projects/balena-cli-masterclass/issues/new), or contact
```

> be delighted to answer your questions.

Reviewer: (or open an issue in this repo, perhaps?)

Author: Done.

# Hardware and Software Requirements

It is assumed that the reader has access to the following:

> * A

Reviewer: nit: spurious "A"

Author: Done.

This will install the balenaCLI globally and allow you to run it in a terminal
via `balena <command>`. Note that, depending on how you've installed NodeJS
and NPM, you may need to prefix this command with `sudo`.

To use balenaCLI, you need to login to a balenaCloud account. If you don't
have one, you can use the dashboard
[here](https://dashboard.balena-cloud.com/signup) or sign up when you the
login command by selecting `I don't have a balena account!`. Either way,
login via the terminal:
```
$ balena login
 _            _
| |__   __ _ | |  ____  _ __    __ _
| '_ \ / _` || | / __ \| '_ \  / _` |
| |_) | (_) || ||  ___/| | | || (_) |
|_.__/ \__,_||_| \____/|_| |_| \__,_|

Logging in to balena-cloud.com
? How would you like to login? (Use arrow keys)
❯ Web authorization (recommended)
  Credentials
  Authentication token
  I don't have a balena account!
```

You will be asked how you wish to authenticate with balenaCloud. The
easiest method is that of 'Web authorization' which will bring up a browser
window (and ask you to first login to balenaCloud if you have not) and ask you
to confirm you wish to login.

Other authentication methods include using your username and password

> credentials or authentication token.

Author: You can use authentication token to supply either API or JWT tokens, the former won't expire, the latter will. So I think this needs clarifying. Along with that tokens expire when you change password details.

JWT is limited to seven days, after which time reauthentication will be
required.

## 2. Creating an Application and Provisioning a Device

### 2.1 Creating an Application

Applications can be created via the dashboard or via the balenaCLI. We're going
to create a new application via balenaCLI called `cliApp`. Run the following
command:
```
$ balena app create cliApp
```
This will ask you which device type you wish to create the application for.
You can scroll up and down this list using the arrow keys. For now, exit
the command by hitting `Ctrl-C`, as there's another, non-interactive way to
do this which we'll use instead. Type:
```
$ balena devices supported
```
to see a list of all supported device types by balenaCloud. For the rest of
this masterclass we're going to assume you're using a balenaFin, but you can
just as easily use any supported balena device.
We'll pass the balenaFin device type (`fincm3`) to the application creation
command directly:
```
$ balena app create cliApp --type fincm3
Application created: cliApp (fincm3, id 1234567)
```
As can be seen, this will return the name of the application, its type

> (`fincm3`) and its unique ID. Obviously, if you're using a different device

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(`fincm3`) and its unique ID. If you're using a different device
```

type, pass the appropriate device type to the `app create` command instead.

Non-interactive commands are useful when you need to script actions via
balenaCLI for a shellscript (although balena also includes HTTPS endpoints and
SDKs which can be used for this purpose).

You can list the applications currently owned by (or shared with) your account
by typing:
```
$ balena apps
ID      APP NAME         DEVICE TYPE      ONLINE DEVICES DEVICE COUNT
1234567 cliApp           fincm3           0              0
```

### 2.2 Provisioning a Device

You can now provision your balenaFin by downloading a provisioning image from
the balenaCloud dashboard. Be sure to download a development image, as we'll
be utilising its features later.

Once the provisioning image is downloaded, connect your balenaFin to your development machine and run

> [Etcher to flash it](https://www.balena.io/fin/1.1/docs/getting-started/#Flashing-the-OS).

Reviewer 3: It might be worth linking to etcher directly, for the non-fin users (there's almost certainly going to be more pi3 users, at least for the time being).

			       \\
			        >\/7
			    _.-(6'  \
			   (=___._/` \
			        )  \ |
			       /   / |
			      /    > /
			     j    < _\
			 _.-' :      ``.
			 \ r=._\        `.
			<`\\_  \         .`-.
			 \ r-7  `-. ._  ' .  `\
			  \`,      `-.`7  7)   )
			   \/         \|  \'  / `-._
			              ||    .'
			               \\  (
			                >\  >
			            ,.-' >.'
			           <.'_.''
			             <'

To git.balena-cloud.com:heds/cliapp.git
 * [new branch]      initial-pr -> master
 ```

This will store the code from the local repository into the private copy
stored by balena.

Just like `balena push`, once the code has been built it will be downloaded
by the device and then run.

**Important Note:** There is absolutely no guarantee that the private repository
will be available for pulling code from, and as such it should never be used
as an application's source repository origin. It is intended to be a temporary
repository used only for pushing to the builders.

## 4. SSHing into a Device

Once a device has been provisioned, it can be accessed by SSHing into it via
the balenaClound VPN. To do this, you'll need the UUID of the device you want to

> SSH into (remember you can see all your devices by running `balena devices`):

Reviewer 3: so there's a few times you mention uuid, it might be worth adding at the first instance of a uuid being used that this is the short uuid, and the long uuid is also usable.

Author: Done.

tunnel to the device and then forward SSH traffic between it and your
development machine (for production devices, this is the only available method).

For devices running development images on your local network, you can also
use SSH by specifying the hostname or IP address of that device (development
images have SSH enabled by default). Using `balena ssh` in this way doesn't use
the balena VPN and instead makes a direct SSH connection to the device.
For example:
```
$ balena ssh 192.168.1.2
```
To find the hostname of a local development device, you can use `balena scan`:
```
$ sudo balena scan
Reporting scan results
-
  host:          827b231.local
  address:       192.168.1.173
  dockerInfo:
    Containers:        1
    ContainersRunning: 1
    ContainersPaused:  0
    ContainersStopped: 0
    Images:            2
    Driver:            aufs
    SystemTime:        2019-09-05T13:31:34.910619617Z
    KernelVersion:     4.14.98
    OperatingSystem:   balenaOS 2.38.0+rev1
    Architecture:      armv7l
  dockerVersion:
    Version:    18.09.6-dev
    ApiVersion: 1.39
```
In this instance `827b231.local` is the hostname, so the device can be SSHd

> into using `balena ssh 827b231.local`.

Reviewer 3: Probably worth mentioning the default is `<short-uuid>.local` to save somebody having to do this.

Author: Done.

[Live]    Waiting for device state to settle...
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:37 PM] Creating network 'default'
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:37 PM] Creating volume 'resin-data'
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:37 PM] Installing service 'main sha256:9ef9a45101757ee81aa26d5ca43713289b2e99401d1b13e32842523876fde664'
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:38 PM] Installed service 'main sha256:9ef9a45101757ee81aa26d5ca43713289b2e99401d1b13e32842523876fde664'
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:38 PM] Starting service 'main sha256:9ef9a45101757ee81aa26d5ca43713289b2e99401d1b13e32842523876fde664'
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:39 PM] Started service 'main sha256:9ef9a45101757ee81aa26d5ca43713289b2e99401d1b13e32842523876fde664'
[Live]    Device state settled
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:41 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:41 PM] [main] > balena-cli-masterclass@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:41 PM] [main] > node src/helloworld.js; sleep infinity
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:41 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:34:41 PM] [main] Hello world!
```
Once the code has been built on the device, it immediately starts executing
and logs are output to the console. You can halt the connection to the local

> device by using `Ctrl-C`.

Reviewer 2: might be worth mentioning that the containers keep running even after disconnecting

Author: Really good point, yes!

[Build]   [main] Removing intermediate container a415b6e7f0af
[Build]   [main]  ---> 1a1ff3926d42
[Build]   [main] Step 7/8 : LABEL io.resin.local.image=1
[Build]   [main]  ---> Running in 7390bcd46425
[Build]   [main] Removing intermediate container 7390bcd46425
[Build]   [main]  ---> ebf9fc9c43ed
[Build]   [main] Step 8/8 : LABEL io.resin.local.service=main
[Build]   [main]  ---> Running in 52ab62708a46
[Build]   [main] Removing intermediate container 52ab62708a46
[Build]   [main]  ---> 60f2a99b07c8
[Build]   [main] Successfully built 60f2a99b07c8
[Build]   [main] Successfully tagged local_image_main:latest

[Live]    Waiting for device state to settle...
[Info]    Streaming device logs...
[Live]    Watching for file changes...
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main] > balena-cli-masterclass@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main] > node src/helloworld.js; sleep infinity
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 2:46:54 PM] [main] Hello world!
```
As you can see, none of the Supervisor logs were printed.

Local Mode also has another huge benefit, known as Livepush. Livepush is a

> feature of the balena Supervisor which makes intelligent decisions on how, or

Reviewer 3: it's not really part of the supervisor at all, and is strictly client side, so if anything it's a CLI feature. It'd also be good to link to the repo, so if people notice something going wrong they can create an issue there.

relevant container layer.
To show this, continue to run the `balena push` command and then alter the
`src/helloworld.js` in a text editor and change:
```
console.log('Hello world!');
```
to
```
console.log('Hello moon!');
```
On saving the file, you'll see the following output:
```
[Live]    Detected changes for container main, updating...
[Live]    [main] Restarting service...
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main] > balena-cli-masterclass@1.0.0 start /usr/src/app
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main] > node src/helloworld.js; sleep infinity
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:27 PM] [main]
[Logs]    [9/5/2019, 4:02:28 PM] [main] Hello moon!
```
Instead of rebuilding the image, which takes time, the file is injected directly
into the container's filing system and then it is restarted. This happens in a
few seconds and makes the process of developing much faster and more convenient.

Sometimes an engineer may not want to rebuild code 'on the fly'. For this reason
`balena push` in Local Mode also has a `--nolive` option which can be passed
to it. When using this switch, engineers need to re`push` when they want to

> rebuild code.

Reviewer 3: Maybe worth talking about the `balena logs` feature for local mode too, for instance
```
balena logs 192.168.1.1 --service main
balena logs 192.168.1.1
balena logs 192.168.1.1 --system --service main
balena logs abdefg.local --service my-service
```

Author: Hmm, curious, I thought I had! If not, I definitely meant to! :)

Author: Done

## 7. Using Private Registries and Build Time Secrets

### 7.1 Private Registries

As well as using public Docker registries it's possible to instruct builders,
either balena-based or using Local Mode, to pull images from private Docker
registries. This is achieved by using the `--registry-secrets` switch when
calling `balena push` passing a filename containing the secret information.
This information can be in either YAML or JSON. For example, a relevant
JSON object containing this information follows:
```
{
    "https://index.docker.io/v1/": {
		"username": "myUser",
		"password": "myPassword"
	}
}
```
If saved as a JSON file, for example `secrets.json`, it will then be used when
a base image or image for a service is pulled which requires credentials:
```
$ balena push --registry-secrets secrets.json
```
You can also save a file with secrets in JSON or YAML format in your home

> directory, under `~/.balena/secrets.<yml|json>`, which will automatically be

Reviewer 3: :+1:

			    _.-(6'  \
			   (=___._/` \
			        )  \ |
			       /   / |
			      /    > /
			     j    < _\
			 _.-' :      ``.
			 \ r=._\        `.
			<`\\_  \         .`-.
			 \ r-7  `-. ._  ' .  `\
			  \`,      `-.`7  7)   )
			   \/         \|  \'  / `-._
			              ||    .'
			               \\  (
			                >\  >
			            ,.-' >.'
			           <.'_.''
			             <'
```
As you can see, step 6 output:
```
[main]     Step 6/7 : RUN cat /run/secrets/my-secrets
[main]      ---> Running in 949098cba8b6
[main]     This file has build-time secrets!
```
which is the contents of the secrets file. This file could obviously contain
a raft of different functions, including a script that gets executed, text
for filling in files, etc. As well as defining globally accessible secrets
(which are shared to all services being built), there is also the option to
define secrets that are only accessible to particular services, or to map them
to different paths. This becomes useful in multicontainer build scenarios. This
can be achieved by adding a `services` section to the `balena.yml` file. For
example:
```
services:
  main:
    - source: main-only-secrets

> 	  dest: my-main-secrets

Reviewer 3: indentation incorrect here, `dest` should be at same level as `source`

Author: I think this a reader issue, in my editor they line up.

```
This change would map the `.balena/secrets/main-only-secrets` file into the
`/run/secrets/my-main-secrets` runtime path at build-time but *only for the
`main` service*.

Another frequent use for secrets at build-time is that of environment variables

> that are defined but shouldn't exist in the generated service image. Much in

Reviewer 3: This is wrong, and could be pretty dangerous. Build arguments can be retrieved from a built image, so we strongly recommend not using them for anything secret

Author: I think I'd misread the documentation 'Build Time Secrets and Variables' as a heading to me implies both secrets and variables are build time only, but it is disputed further down. I think this heading needs changing in the docs.

Author: Done.
